## Dynamic-Sign-Language-Recognition-and-Translation-Using-Camera-for-Deaf-and-Dumb-People

Sign language recognition and translation in real time scenario, using deep learning (LSTM). Pakistani Sign Language dataset is used.

I have worked on a problem of Sign language recognition and translation using deep learning. In this project we had successfully generated dataset of 60 signs. This dataset was completely based on Pakistani signs language system. In this project we successfully classified 60 different signs using deep learning technique. This project was to detect, recognize, translate an to speak associated word to that specific sign. 


• Dataset was generated by capturing sequential images from different people.

• Dataset preprocessing was applied to clean the data 

• Deep Neural Network was selected on the basis of performance (RNN performed better than CNN)

• LSTM model was selected because of its forget unit.

• K-fold split is being done to get better training.

• Trained LSTM with sigmoid as it's Activation function because of multi-class problem. 

• Tested the model by using accuracy matrix. 

• Tested the model in real time. Translation is done.

• The translated word is then converted to audio using pyttsx3.

• The complete project was designed in python programming language. 

#### Skills:  Keras ·Machine Learning ·TensorFlow ·Deep Learning ·Web App Development ·Python (Programming Language) ·Data Analysis ·Data Preprocessing.

##### Anyone who wants the access to Dataset of Pakistani Sign Language System. Contact me via email address: muzammilbinzubair@gmail.com 
